in this video we are going to create a
multi branch pipeline with blue ocean in
terms of theory we will see what a multi
branch pipeline is in the practical part
we will create and run a simple multi
branch pipeline job using blue oceans
visual editor let's start by defining
what a multi branch pipeline is a multi
branch pipeline is a job that enables to
implement the different jenkins files
for different branches in the same
source control repository one of the
main advantages of multi branch
pipelines is that jenkins automatically
discovers and executes pipelines for
branches and pool requests in a source
control repository this removes the
manual creation of many pipeline jobs
the best way to understand the multi
branch pipeline job is to create one and
that's exactly what we are going to do
in this demo in particular we will use
the blue oceans visual editor to create
the multi branch pipeline we will use
github as our source controller
repository and during the process we
will create a personal access token so
that github and Jenkins
can communicate with each other finally
we will run and visualize the multi
branch pipeline with blue ocean this is
a visual representation of the pipeline
we are going to create we'll build the
pipeline with dummy stages to build to
test in parallel and to deploy before we
get started please note the following
prerequisite to follow this video you
need to have a github account if you
don't have one already sign up at this
URL to replicate what I do in the video
you need to fork the companion
repository for this video course on
github in fact we will need to set up an
access token and you can only do it on a
repository you have full admin rights
you won't be able to do it on my
repository if you haven't fucked a
repository yet follow these instructions
we want covered
during the demo finally make sure you
are logged in into your github account
before starting the demo as you will
automatically be redirected to the
correct page on github ok without any
further ado let's create a multi branch
pipeline with blue ocean go to Jenkins
and click on the open blue ocean link
click on new pipeline in the navigation
bar to create a pipeline with the visual
editor the first step is to define where
is the code that we want to pull in our
Jenkins pipeline for this demo which is
github next we are asked to connect to
get up and create an access token to
allow github and Jenkins to communicate
securely ignore this error message you
will not get it if it is the first time
you create an access token
click on the link create an access key
here your browser opens up and if you
are already logged in into github you
are asked to enter your admin password
for your github account this is required
in order to change the settings and
create an access token enter your
password and click on confirm password
we are prompt to create a new personal
access token allowing github to
communicate with Jenkins
in token description type a name for
this token I use here hands on Jenkins
under select scope you can choose which
type of access to grant to the access
token for our purposes we are fine with
the default permissions so scroll down
and click on generate token this
generates an access token in github that
you need to copy then go back to Jenkins
and paste it in the box for the access
token finally click on connect
the next step is to define which
organization the repository belongs to
my personal account is linked to several
organizations related to my work and
other open source projects so you will
not see the same screen here but your
account will be displayed this is mine
therefore click on your account name
after that you are asked to choose a
repository this is the repository that
wiii be pulled out from the Jenkins
pipeline job in this case I choose ends
on Jenkins if you for my repository you
should have the same repository hands on
Jenkins in your account therefore select
hands on Jenkins and click on create
pipeline
wait few seconds until Jenkins completes
this step
as the repository hands on Jenkins does
not contain a Jenkins file at its root
Jenkins cannot find a Jenkins file and
prompts you to create one with the
visual editor you will recognize here
some of the steps that we scripted in
section 4 using the declarative pipeline
syntax here we are doing a similar thing
but we use the visual editor that
automatically creates the source code
from the steps that you select here
let's create a dummy pipeline with a
stage to build three parallel stages to
test and one stage to deploy for sake of
simplicity we will just print a message
to a console output in these stages we
want to run this dummy pipeline on any
available agent so keep any agent under
pipeline settings click on the Add icon
in the pipeline visualization to add the
stage we call the first stage build and
we are the step inside this stage by
clicking on add step
in this step we just want to print the
message billed as a step example so
click on print message and add the
message to display to the console output
for example building
now we add another stage after the build
stage so click on the plus sign
following the build stage we give this
stage the name test Firefox
and we are the step which s Acutes a
shell script
in this box we write the shell script we
just want to output a message so we type
echo quote testing Firefox quote to
simulate a test on the Firefox browser
now let's add another stage to simulate
tests running on a different browser
because we want to run these tests in
parallel we click on the plus sign below
the test Firefox stage we just created
here we repeat the same procedure and
add a stage to simulate tests running on
the Chrome browser as before we execute
a shell script to echo the message
testing Chrome finally we do the same
for a third stage that we call test edge
in order to simulate tests running on
the edge browser
the next stage is deployed and it occurs
after the test stages so we click on the
plus sign after the tests we name the
stage deploy
we are the step which prints a message
deploying
we completed the pipeline so we click on
the Save button on the top right hand
side
Jenkins is going to push the source code
for this pipeline to the github
repository
and asks for a commit message and a
branch to push to we type a commit
message add multi branch pipeline and we
commit to a new branch then you can name
as you want if you prefer you can also
commit directly to the master branch
since you are working on your Fork of
the repository finally click on save and
run
wait a few seconds until Jenkins pushes
the source code to get up
the first thing that the pipeline job
does is to index all the branches in the
repository to see if there are multiple
branches with multiple jenkins files
click on the running pipeline and you
can see the pipeline running with a nice
visualization
you can inspect single stages and check
the console output
finally the pipeline completes
successfully as expected congratulations
you just created and run a pipeline job
via the visual editor now let's see what
happened on the github repository go to
your github repository and if you have
it already open like me refresh the page
github notifies us that the new branch
has been recently pushed to the
repository this is the branch created
and pushed by Jenkins click on it and
you'll notice that the Jenkins file has
been added to this branch click on the
Jenkins file recognise the stages we
created with the visual editor Jenkins
has automatically created the pipeline
source code for you this is the end of
this video where we created a multi
branch pipeline with blue oceans visual
editor watch the next video where we
will explore pull requests in the multi
branch pipeline